Add documentation for ISEO Argo BLE lock integration (#43913)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/iseo_argo_ble.markdown

---
title: ISEO Argo BLE
description: Instructions on how to integrate your ISEO Argo smart lock into Home Assistant via Bluetooth.
ha_category:
  - Lock
ha_release: 2026.4
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@FezVrasta'
ha_domain: iseo_argo_ble
ha_platforms:
  - lock
ha_bluetooth: true
ha_integration_type: device

> ha_quality_scale: platinum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_quality_scale: bronze
```
The initial PR is usually bronze. It will be updated automatically when this is changed in core.
https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/create-page

---

The **ISEO Argo BLE** {% term integration %} connects Home Assistant to [ISEO](https://www.iseo.com) Argo smart locks over Bluetooth Low Energy. ISEO is an Italian security manufacturer specializing in high-security cylinders and electronic access control, widely used in residential and commercial buildings across Italy and Switzerland.

Home Assistant registers itself as an Argo Gateway, giving it the same privileges as the official Argo app: unlocking the lock and receiving real-time access log entries.

All communication is direct Bluetooth, with no cloud dependency or bridge hardware required.

## Prerequisites

- A Bluetooth adapter accessible to Home Assistant (built-in or via [ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/bluetooth/#remote-adapters-bluetooth-proxies)).
- An ISEO Argo smart lock, such as x1R Smart or AGB Smart.
- The physical Master Card that was supplied with the lock. It is required during the setup process to authorize Home Assistant.
- The official **Argo** app must be closed on all phones during each setup step, as the lock only accepts one Bluetooth connection at a time.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ### Step-by-step walkthrough

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding your ISEO lock to Home Assistant
```

> The setup flow consists of two steps. You only need to scan the Master Card once:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. **Select lock** – Home Assistant scans for nearby ISEO locks and presents them in a list. Select your lock and select **Submit**.

Reviewer: Is this done after the integration is added to Home Assistant? Where do I select submit?

Author: As soon you add the integration the setup flow shows a list of ISEO locks and you can press submit after you select the one you want to setup.

Reviewer: ah, I see. I added a suggestion to make it clear that this happens on the integration page in Home Assistant. Please change the steps if they are incorrect.

> 1. **Select lock** – Home Assistant scans for nearby ISEO locks and presents them in a list. Select your lock and select **Submit**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. As soon as you add the integration to Home Assistant, Home Assistant scans for nearby ISEO locks and presents them in a list.
2. In Home Assistant, go to {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %}.
3. From the list, select the lock you want to set up.
```

> 2. **Register Gateway** – Select **Submit**, then within 30 seconds scan the **Master Card** on the lock to authorize Home Assistant. The lock LEDs blink green when the card is read successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Submit** and within 30 seconds, scan the Master Card on the lock to authorize Home Assistant. 
   - **Result**: The lock's LED will blink green when the card is successfully read.
```

---
title: ISEO Argo BLE
description: Instructions on how to integrate your ISEO Argo smart lock into Home Assistant via Bluetooth.
ha_category:
  - Lock

> ha_release: 2026.4

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.9
```

> ha_iot_class: Local Push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
```
Changing this to Polling to align with the declaration in the Core PR.

> ha_iot_class: Local Polling

Reviewer 2: not push?

Author: It's polling in this PR, yes.

The lock does encode door status in its BLE advertisements, and my HACS version uses exactly that: a passive `BluetoothChange.ADVERTISEMENT` callback with no polling at all, declared as `local_push`. This core PR still carries the older design though, which connects on a 30 second interval and reads the state, so `local_polling` is accurate for what's being merged here.

I intend to move to the passive-advertisement approach in a follow-up, and the docs will change to `local_push` at that point.

Author: This is the PR that will introduce passive listening, but it requires an habluetooth fix before it can land.

https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/180479

ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@FezVrasta'
ha_domain: iseo_argo_ble
ha_platforms:
  - lock
ha_bluetooth: true
ha_integration_type: device
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

The **ISEO Argo BLE** {% term integration %} connects Home Assistant to [ISEO](https://www.iseo.com) Argo smart locks over Bluetooth Low Energy. ISEO is an Italian security manufacturer specializing in high-security cylinders and electronic access control, widely used in residential and commercial buildings across Italy and Switzerland.

Home Assistant registers itself as an Argo Gateway, giving it the same privileges as the official Argo app: unlocking the lock and receiving real-time access log entries.

All communication is direct Bluetooth, with no cloud dependency or bridge hardware required.

## Prerequisites

> - A Bluetooth adapter accessible to Home Assistant (built-in or via [ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/bluetooth/#remote-adapters-bluetooth-proxies)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Bluetooth adapter accessible to Home Assistant (built-in or via [ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](/integrations/bluetooth/#remote-adapters-bluetooth-proxies)).
```
We use relative links here

Home Assistant registers itself as an Argo Gateway, giving it the same privileges as the official Argo app: unlocking the lock and receiving real-time access log entries.

All communication is direct Bluetooth, with no cloud dependency or bridge hardware required.

## Prerequisites

- A Bluetooth adapter accessible to Home Assistant (built-in or via [ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/bluetooth/#remote-adapters-bluetooth-proxies)).
- An ISEO Argo smart lock, such as x1R Smart or AGB Smart.
- The physical Master Card that was supplied with the lock. It is required during the setup process to authorize Home Assistant.
- The official **Argo** app must be closed on all phones during each setup step, as the lock only accepts one Bluetooth connection at a time.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Adding your ISEO lock to Home Assistant

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: ISEO Argo BLE
description: Instructions on how to integrate your ISEO Argo smart lock into Home Assistant via Bluetooth.
ha_category:
  - Lock

> ha_release: '2026.4'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.4
```

description: Instructions on how to integrate your ISEO Argo smart lock into Home Assistant via Bluetooth.
ha_category:
  - Lock
ha_release: '2026.4'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@FezVrasta'
ha_domain: iseo_argo_ble
ha_platforms:
  - lock
ha_bluetooth: true
ha_integration_type: device
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

The **ISEO Argo BLE** {% term integration %} connects Home Assistant to [ISEO](https://www.iseo.com) Argo smart locks over Bluetooth Low Energy. ISEO is an Italian security manufacturer specializing in high-security cylinders and electronic access control, widely used in residential and commercial buildings across Italy and Switzerland.

Home Assistant registers itself as an Argo Gateway, giving it the same privileges as the official Argo app: unlocking the lock and receiving real-time access log entries.

All communication is direct Bluetooth, with no cloud dependency or bridge hardware required.

## Prerequisites

- A Bluetooth adapter accessible to Home Assistant (built-in or via [ESPHome Bluetooth proxy](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/esphome/)).
- An ISEO Argo smart lock, such as x1R Smart or AGB Smart.

> - The physical **Master Card** that was supplied with the lock — it is required during the setup process to authorize Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The physical Master Card that was supplied with the lock. It is required during the setup process to authorize Home Assistant.
```
We use [bold to markup UI strings](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide)

> - The official **Argo app must be closed** on all phones during each setup step, as the lock only accepts one Bluetooth connection at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The official **Argo** app must be closed on all phones during each setup step, as the lock only accepts one Bluetooth connection at a time.
```

> ## Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not needed. The title is part of the reusable text (the config_flow include element).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Step-by-step walkthrough

The setup flow consists of two steps. You only need to scan the Master Card once:

1. **Select lock** – Home Assistant scans for nearby ISEO locks and presents them in a list. Select your lock and select **Submit**.
2. **Register Gateway** – Select **Submit**, then within 30 seconds scan the **Master Card** on the lock to authorize Home Assistant. The lock LEDs blink green when the card is read successfully.

> ## Entities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported functionality
```

### Lock

> | Entity | Description                                                                  |

Reviewer: We [prefer lists over tables](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide#tables), see [example](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L141).
